<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook V3.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN" [
 <!ENTITY kmail "<application>kmail</application>">
]>
<book lang="en">
<bookinfo>
	<title>The Kmail Handbook</title>

	<authorgroup>
	<!--
	<author>
		<firstname>Daniel</firstname>
		<surname>Naber</surname>
	</author>
	-->
	<author>
		<firstname>David</firstname>
		<surname>Rugge</surname>
	</author>
	</authorgroup>

	<abstract>
	<para>This documentation was last updated for Kmail version 1.1.43.
	<!-- fixme: --> Warning: This is currently work in progress.</para>
	
	<para>If you don't like reading documentation: Some very helpful hints you probably
	don't want to miss are collected in the <link linkend="secGettingStarted">Getting Started</link>
	section.</para>
	
	<para>Please mail any comments and additions to <ulink url="kmail@kde.org">kmail@kde.org</ulink>.</para>
	</abstract>

	<date>2000-05-15</date>

	<releaseinfo><!-- information about this particular version --></releaseinfo>

	<keywordset>
	<keyword>KDE</keyword>
	<keyword>Mail</keyword>
	<keyword>email</keyword>
	<keyword>Client</keyword>
	<keyword>POP3</keyword>
	<keyword>PGP</keyword>
	<keyword>GnuPG</keyword>
	</keywordset>
</bookinfo>

<chapter id="secintro">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>The Kmail Team welcomes you to Kmail, a user-friendly mailer for the
K Desktop Environment. Our goal is to make a mailer that is beautiful and intuitive
without sacrificing power. </para>

<para>If you have never set up an email client on a Unix system before, we suggest that you read through 
the <link linkend="secGettingStarted">Getting Started</link> section first so that your setup goes smoothly.</para>

<para>Since people don't read documentation anyway, here are some tips:</para>
<!-- It's probably a good idea to copy some contents from the "introduction email"
 here and vice versa -->

<para>When you're writing a new mail and you're in the To: field, only type
the first few characters of the receiver's address, then press Ctrl-T to get a list 
of choices. These are taken from your addressbook, so keep you address book
up to date and this feature will be very useful.</para>

<para>You don't have to use your mouse to use Kmail. Everything
should be possible with keys. Kmail supports all the standard key 
like TAB (switch between panes). The trick is: cursor left/right
always jumps to the previous/next message, but when you hold down
CTRL, you can use cursor left/right to navigate in the Folders pane
or in the Headers pane (depending on what has the focus).</para>

<!-- TODO: add other tips for "invisible" features here -->

<para>Kmail's homepage is at <ulink url="http://devel-home.kde.org/~kmail/">http://devel-home.kde.org/~kmail/</ulink></para>

<para>Bug reports and suggestions should go to kmail@kde.org.</para>

<para>We hope you will enjoy Kmail!</para>

</chapter>



<chapter id="secgettingstarted">
<title>Getting Started</title>

<para>This is a short introduction to Kmail and its usage so you can start
working with it right away. For more in-depth information see the 
<link linkend="secUsingKmail">Using Kmail</link> section.</para>

<para>Invoking Kmail for the first time creates a directory calles "Mail" containing the initial
files (inbox, outbox, sent-mail, and trash) in your home directory.  Kmail then pops up
the Settings window where you must enter some initial information so Kmail will 
be able to properly retrieve and send your messages. <!-- (fixme: doesn't pop up
automatically anymore!) --></para>

<para>The Settings window consists of seven sections: 
<emphasis remap="bf">Identity</emphasis>, <emphasis remap="bf">Network</emphasis>, 
<emphasis remap="bf">Appearance</emphasis>,  <emphasis remap="bf">Composer</emphasis>, 
<emphasis remap="bf">Mime Headers</emphasis>,
<emphasis remap="bf">Security</emphasis>, and <emphasis remap="bf">Miscellaneous</emphasis>. 

To begin sending and receiving email you will only have to change the
settings in the <emphasis remap="bf">Identity</emphasis> and <emphasis remap="bf">Network</emphasis> tabs.</para>

<sect1 id="settingyouridentity">
<title>Setting your Identity</title>

<para>The settings in the <emphasis remap="bf">Identity</emphasis> tab are 
fairly straightforward. Fill in the <emphasis remap="bf">Name</emphasis> field
with your full name (e.g. "Peter Sanders")
and the <emphasis remap="bf">Organization</emphasis> field (optional) with the appropriate
information. (If you don't want this information to be automatically included in the
headers of any message that you send, you can leave these fields empty and
Kmail will still work.)</para>

<para>Next, fill in the <emphasis remap="bf">Email Address</emphasis> and the 
<emphasis remap="bf">Reply-To Address</emphasis> (optional) field 
with your email address. Finally, set the location of your signature file in the
<emphasis remap="bf">Signature File</emphasis> field. You can skip setting the 
signature file if you do not have one, but every time you compose a new message,
Kmail will ask you for your signature file. So if you don't want one, select
<emphasis remap="bf">Specify signature below</emphasis> and just don't
enter anything in the field below.</para>

<para>If you want
a random signature, you may specify a program like "fortune" <!-- (fixme: correct?) -->
and check the <emphasis remap="bf">The file is a program</emphasis> box.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="settingupyouraccount">
<title>Setting up your Account</title>

<para>The <emphasis remap="bf">Network</emphasis> tab contains the settings that tell 
Kmail how to send and receive your
email. Many of these settings can vary greatly depending on the setup of your system
and on the kind of network that your mail server is located. If you do not know what
setting to pick or what to put in a field, consult your Internet Service Provider
(ISP) or System Administrator.</para>

<sect2 id="sendingmail">
<title>Sending Mail</title>

<para> 
The <emphasis remap="bf">Sending Mail</emphasis> section provides two options for sending mail:
sendmail and SMTP. Sendmail has a reputation of being difficult to set up, so if you
do not already have a working sendmail configuration, choose SMTP and fill in the
<emphasis remap="bf">Server</emphasis> field with the name and domain of your mail server. You will probably
not need to change the <emphasis remap="bf">Port</emphasis> setting.</para>

<para>If you do want to use sendmail and you are using a dial-up connection, follow the instructions
for setting up sendmail for a dial-up connection in the Questions and Answers section.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="receivingmail">
<title>Receiving Mail</title>

<para>To set up an account so you can receive mail, press the <emphasis remap="bf">Add...</emphasis> button in the
<emphasis remap="bf">Incoming Mail</emphasis> section. You will then be prompted for the type of account.
Most users should select <emphasis remap="bf">POP3</emphasis> (IMAP accounts are not yet supported). After
pressing <emphasis remap="bf">OK</emphasis> you will be presented with the <emphasis remap="bf">Add Account</emphasis>
window. First, fill in the <emphasis remap="bf">Name</emphasis> field to name your account. You can choose
any name you like.
<emphasis remap="bf">Login</emphasis>,
<emphasis remap="bf">Password</emphasis>, and <emphasis remap="bf">Host</emphasis>
should be filled in with the appropriate
information from your ISP or System Administrator. Again, you should not need to
change the <emphasis remap="bf">Port</emphasis> setting.</para>

<para>If you select <emphasis remap="bf">Store POP password in configuration file</emphasis>
Kmail will remember your password so you won't have to type it every time you
start Kmail and fecth new mail. Be warned that we cannot really encrypt the
password, so people who can access your configuration files (e.g. system administrators)
can see you password if you select this option.</para>

<para>Select <emphasis remap="bf">Retrieve all mail from server</emphasis> if you
want to get all mails, not only the new ones (if you have selected
<emphasis remap="bf">Delete mail from server</emphasis> this has no effect)
<!-- fixme: correct? --></para>

<para>Select <emphasis remap="bf">Exclude from "Check Mail"</emphasis> if you
don't want to check this account whenever you use <emphasis remap="bf">Check mail...</emphasis>.
You can still check for new mail on this account with <emphasis remap="bf">File &verbar; Check Mail in...</emphasis>.</para>

<para>Select <emphasis remap="bf">Enable interval mail checking</emphasis> if you
want Kmail to check for new mail automatically. The interval can be specified below.</para>

<para>Select <emphasis remap="bf">Delete mail from server</emphasis> if
you don't want to leave your mail on the server. Leave the account's mailbox set to
inbox for now, although you may want to change it if you add more accounts later.</para>

<para>You are now ready to send and receive mail!</para>

</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="testingyoursetup">
<title>Testing Your Setup</title>

<para>First, we will send an email to test our configuration. To send an email, hit 
Control-N, select the <emphasis remap="bf">Compose new message</emphasis> icon (the empty
sheet of paper) or
select the <emphasis remap="bf">File &verbar; New Composer</emphasis> menu item.  
The <emphasis remap="bf">Composer</emphasis> 
window will appear. Fill in the <emphasis remap="bf">To:</emphasis> field with your email address and type
something in the <emphasis remap="bf">subject</emphasis> field.  Send the mail by selecting 
<emphasis remap="bf">File &verbar; Send</emphasis>.</para>

<para>To check your email, select <emphasis remap="bf">File &verbar; Check Mail...</emphasis>
 A window will pop up and indicate how much mail is being 
downloaded. If you receive the message you just sent, then congratulations!
If, however, you receive any error messages
while testing your setup, make sure that your network connection is working and
recheck your settings by selecting <emphasis remap="bf">File &verbar; Settings...</emphasis></para>
</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="secusingkmail">
<title>Using Kmail</title>

<sect1 id="themailreaderwindow">
<title>The Mail Reader Window</title>

<para>The <emphasis remap="bf">Mail Reader</emphasis> window is the window that appears
when Kmail is started. The <emphasis remap="bf">Mail Reader</emphasis> window 
is divided into three panes:</para>

<para><variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>Folders Pane (upper left pane)</term>
<listitem>
<para>This pane contains a list of your message folders (other email programs call them 
mailboxes). If there's a number after the folder name this indicates that this folder
contains unread mails. To select a folder, simply click on it. The messages contained in the folder
will now appear in the Headers Pane. The number of unread messages and the
total number of messages in the selected folder is now displayed in the status bar.
The folders can be displayed in both a short view, which takes up only a small
portion of the left side of the screen, and a long view, which takes up the
entire left side of the screen but is able to show more mailboxes. See 
the <link linkend="secFolders">Folders Section</link> for more information about how to use
folders.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Headers Pane (upper right pane)</term>
<listitem>
<para>This pane lists header
information (message Status Flags, Sender, Subject, and the Date the message was
sent) for the messages in the currently selected folder. Clicking on a header
will select that message and display it in the Message Pane. You can also select
a series of messages by clicking on one message, holding down the SHIFT key, and
clicking on another message. The two messages you just clicked on will be
selected, along with all the messages in between. By holding down the CTRL key
you can select any number of messages <!-- (fixme: distinction from SHIFT) -->. You may sort the messages by
clicking on the column that you wish to sort. If you click on the same
column more then once, sort order will toggle between ascending/descending.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Message Pane (lower pane)</term>
<listitem>
<para>Displays the header and body of the currently selected message. Attachments
appear at the bottom of the message as icons based on the MIME type of the
attachment. You can scroll through the message page by page using the PAGE UP
and PAGE DOWN keys, or line by line using the up and down arrow keys. You can
also use the following key shortcuts to skip through your messages without
having to use the mouse:
<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>N or the left arrow key - Next message</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>P or the right arrow key - Previous message</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>+ - Next unread message</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>- - Previous unread message</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</para>

<para>Messages can have several status flags, which can be changed from the <emphasis remap="bf">Message &verbar; Set
Status</emphasis> submenu. The status flags are described below:</para>

<para><itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">New:</emphasis>(red dot, message colored red) The message has been received for the first
time and is unread.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Unread:</emphasis> (green dot, message colored blue) The message has already been retrieved off
the server at least once, but has not been read yet.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Read:</emphasis> (dash) The message has been read. </para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Replied:</emphasis> (blue u-turn arrow) A reply has been composed to this message. </para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Queued:</emphasis> (envelope) The message has been queued in the <emphasis remap="bf">outbox</emphasis> to be sent later.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">Sent:</emphasis> (angled envelope) The message has been sent. </para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="thecomposerwindow">
<title>The Composer Window</title>

<para>The <emphasis remap="bf">Composer</emphasis> window is used to write new messages.
It can be invoked from the <emphasis remap="bf">File</emphasis> Menu or from the
document icon on the <emphasis remap="bf">Mail Reader</emphasis> window button bar.
If you have not set the location of your signature
file and you have <emphasis remap="bf">Use a signature from file</emphasis> checked
in the <emphasis remap="bf">Composer</emphasis> tab of the
<emphasis remap="bf">Settings</emphasis> dialog, you will be prompted for the location of your
signature file before the <emphasis remap="bf">Composer</emphasis> window opens.
<!-- (fixme: correct?) --></para>

<sect2 id="composingamessage">
<title>Composing a Message</title>

<para>To write your message, fill in the appropriate fields in the
<emphasis remap="bf">Composer</emphasis> window.  There are a variety of
shortcuts to help you with writing you messages.  The ellipses buttons
next to the <emphasis remap="bf">To:</emphasis>,
<emphasis remap="bf">Cc:</emphasis>, and <emphasis remap="bf">Bcc:</emphasis>
fields will call up the addressbook so that you can select addresses
from there instead of trying to remember them. When you are finished with
your message, hit the Send button (the envelope) to queue or send the message.
Note that you can use the <emphasis remap="bf">View</emphasis> menu to
set up the header fields offered to you.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="attachments">
<title>Attachments</title>

<para>You can attach files to you message by using one of the methods below:
<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>Push the paper clip button and select the file you wish to attach.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Drag a file from the desktop or another directory into the <emphasis remap="bf">Composer</emphasis> window.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Selecting one of the options in the <emphasis remap="bf">Attach</emphasis> menu.</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>

<para>The <emphasis remap="bf">Message Part Properties</emphasis> dialog will appear
to prompt you for information about your 
attachment. The mime-type and file name fields are automatically filled in with the appropriate values
(Sometimes thie mime-type value may be wrong. You can then type in any content type by hand or choose from
the list of common mime-types).
You should then select an encoding method for your file from the list of encoding options (normally,
the default value works fine).</para>

<para>Once a file is attached to your message, it appears in the Attachments pane at the bottom of the
<emphasis remap="bf">Composer</emphasis>
window. You may remove, save, or get information about an attachment by selecting its line in the
Attachments pane and selecting <emphasis remap="bf">Remove</emphasis>,
<emphasis remap="bf">Save...</emphasis>, or <emphasis remap="bf">Properties...</emphasis> from the
<emphasis remap="bf">Attach</emphasis> menu. </para>

<para>PGP keys may also be attached to your message by using the appropriate options in
the <emphasis remap="bf">Attach</emphasis>
menu. PGP key attachments are handled like file attachements.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="checkingthespellingofyoumessage">
<title>Checking the Spelling of you Message</title>

<para>To check the spelling of your message, select <emphasis remap="bf">Edit
&verbar; Spelling...</emphasis>. Kmail uses KSpell to check spelling, which is
the KDE frontend to the the ispell or aspell spelling checker.</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="secfolders">
<title>Message Folders</title>

<para>Message Folders are used to organize your email messages. By default, all message folders are stored in 
the directory <literal remap="tt">Mail</literal>, which is created in your home directory. When you first 
start Kmail the inbox, outbox, sent-mail, and trash folders are created. 
These folders each have special functions:</para>

<para><itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">inbox:</emphasis> where Kmail puts your new messages when you ask it to check your mail. </para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">outbox:</emphasis> where messages are put while they are waiting to be delivered. </para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">sent-mail:</emphasis> contains copies of all messages that you have sent. </para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><emphasis remap="bf">trash:</emphasis> contains all messages that you have deleted.</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>

<para>You may find that the standard folders are fine for your needs. Eventually, though, you will probably 
need folders to help you organize your messages. To create a new folder, select 
<emphasis remap="bf">Folder &verbar; Create...</emphasis> 
A window will then prompt you for the name of the folder. If you don't want it to be a top level folder,
you may choose the folder under which it will appear.
If you ever need to change the settings for a folder,
select the folder you wish to modify in the Folders Pane and select 
<emphasis remap="bf">Folder &verbar; Modify...</emphasis>.</para>

<para>To move messages from one folder into another, select the message(s) you want to move and press the M key
or select <emphasis remap="bf">Message &verbar; Move to</emphasis>. A list of folders will appear.  Select the
folder from the list that you want to move the messages to.  Messages can also be
moved by dragging a message from the Headers pane into the Folders pane.</para>

<para>You may find that your folders are taking up a lot of disk space after they have been used for a while 
even though they may not have very many messages in them.  To fix this problem, select the folder and 
choose <emphasis remap="bf">Folder &verbar; Compact</emphasis>. Note that you can also select
<emphasis remap="bf">Compact all folders on exit</emphasis> in the <emphasis remap="bf">Settings</emphasis> 
dialog.</para>

<para>If you want to clear all of the messages out of a folder choose <emphasis remap="bf">Folder &verbar; Empty</emphasis>. 
All the messages in the selected folder will be moved to the <emphasis remap="bf">trash</emphasis> folder. If the
selected folder is the <emphasis remap="bf">trash</emphasis> folder, all of the messages will be permanently deleted.</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="theaddressbook">
<title>The Addressbook</title>
<!-- TODO: update when new address book is included -->

<para>The addressbook is a place to store your commonly used email addresses.  You can call up the addressbook
from the <emphasis remap="bf">File</emphasis> menu, the addressbook button on the Main window, or the addressbook button in the
<emphasis remap="bf">Composer</emphasis> window.</para>

<para>To add addresses to the addressbook, type an email address into the lower section of the window and hit
the <emphasis remap="bf">Add</emphasis> button.  The address will then appear in the list.  To remove an address, select it from
the list and hit the <emphasis remap="bf">Remove</emphasis> button. </para>

<para>Addresses can also be added to the addressbook from the <emphasis remap="bf">Mail Reader</emphasis>
window by right-clicking on
an email address in the <emphasis remap="bf">To:</emphasis> or <emphasis remap="bf">From:</emphasis>
fields and selecting <emphasis remap="bf">Add to Addressbook</emphasis>.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="filters">
<title>Filters</title>

<para>After using Kmail for a while, you may find that you have trouble sorting out the new messages in 
your inbox when they arrive. Filters allow you to automatically perform certain actions on
incoming messages and to manually perform actions on selected messages in a folder.</para>

<para>The actions section of the <emphasis remap="bf">Filter Rules</emphasis> window lets you perform 
up to eight actions in one
filter. You can you the "Skip Rest" option to skip the rest of the actions
in the list.  Only the transfer action and the skip rest action are
supported at this time,  but expect to see more action options available
in future releases of Kmail.
<!-- fixme: true? isn't "nothing" the same as "skip rest"??? -->
</para>

<para>Usually, filters are used on incoming messages, but they can also be applied to a message or group of
messages.  To selectively filter messages in a message folder, select the messages you want to filter and
type CONTROL-J or select <emphasis remap="bf">Message &verbar; Apply Filters</emphasis>. Note that this will apply all
of your filters to that message; there is no way to apply only certain filters to a message.</para>

<para>If you ever need to remove a filter, select it from the <emphasis remap="bf">Filter Rules</emphasis> window and press the 
<emphasis remap="bf">Delete</emphasis> button.</para>

<sect2 id="filterexamples">
<title>Filter Examples</title>

<para>If I am subscribed to the KDE User List, I could create a 
folder for the list (I'll call it KDE-User) and use a filter to automatically transfer new 
messages from my inbox to my KDE-User folder if they are from the KDE User List. Here is how
to create this filter:</para>

<para><orderedlist><listitem>
<para>Think of a unique way of identifying the messages you want to filter. The unique property
of my KDE User List messages is that they always contain "kde-user@kde.org" in the
<emphasis remap="bf">To:</emphasis> or <emphasis remap="bf">Cc:</emphasis> field. 
</para>

</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Select <emphasis remap="bf">Filter...</emphasis> from the File menu.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Press the <emphasis remap="bf">New</emphasis> button to create an empty filter.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Select the empty filter from the list. (It will appear as <emphasis remap="bf">Unnamed</emphasis>).</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>The right side of the Filter window contains two sections: matching criteria and actions.
In the matching criteria area, select <emphasis remap="bf">&lt;To: or Cc:&lt;</emphasis> from the first pull-down menu, "Contains" from the
second pull-down menu, and type kde-user@kde.org in the text field.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Skip down to the actions section. Select "Transfer" from the first pull-down menu. A new
pull-down menu containing a list of folders will appear. Select the folder that you want the
filtered messages to be transferred to if they match the criteria you selected. For this example, 
you would select "KDE-User" from the pull-down menu.</para>
</listitem>
<!-- can be ignored, right?:
<listitem>
<para>Select "Skip Rest" from the next pull-down menu.</para>
</listitem>
-->
<listitem>
<para>To save and try out your new filter, hit the <emphasis remap="bf">OK</emphasis> button.
This will also dismiss the window.</para>
</listitem>
</orderedlist>
</para>

<para>You may find that you need to use more complicated criteria to properly filter your messages.
For example, you may only want to save the KDE User List messages that are written by your friend
Fred Johnson &lt;fj@anywhere.com&gt;. This is where the rest of the matching criteria section comes
into play:</para>

<para><orderedlist><listitem>
<para>Open up the Filter Rules window and select the filter you just created.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Since you want to filter all messages that have "kde-user@kde.org" in the <emphasis remap="bf">To:</emphasis>
or <emphasis remap="bf">Cc:</emphasis> field
AND that are from Fred, select the AND option from the pull down menu between the two criteria
sections.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Now, go to the bottom criteria section and select the following from the pull-down menus: 
"From:", "Contains". Now, type "fj@anywhere.com" in the text field.</para>
</listitem>
<!-- can be ignored, right?:
<listitem>
<para>Select "Skip Rest" from the next pull-down menu.</para>
</listitem>
-->
</orderedlist>
</para>

<para>You now have a filter that transfers all KDE User List messages that are from Fred Johnson. </para>
</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="secmultipleaccounts">
<title>Multiple Accounts</title>

<para>Multiple accounts are used to check mail from more than one email address and/or mail server. Select 
<emphasis remap="bf">File &verbar; Settings...</emphasis> and click on the <emphasis remap="bf">Network</emphasis>
tab to add or change 
your account settings. See the <link linkend="secCustomizing">Customizing Kmail</link> section for more 
information on the settings in the <emphasis remap="bf">Network</emphasis> tab.</para>

<para>To check mail from a particular account, use the <emphasis remap="bf">Check Mail in...</emphasis>
submenu to select the account to use to check your mail.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="secpgp">
<title>Pretty good privacy -- fixme: andreas has written an update</title>

<para>Add Andreas' text here.</para>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="seccustomizing">
<title>Customizing Kmail</title>

<para>Kmail's settings window gives you a number of ways to customize Kmail to your needs.</para>

<para>Note that basic instruction on how to setup Kmail (using <emphasis remap="bf">Identity</emphasis>
and <emphasis remap="bf">Network</emphasis>) are featured in the
<link linkend="secGettingStarted">Getting Started</link> section.</para>

<sect1 id="appearancetab">
<title>Appearance Tab</title>

<para>The <emphasis remap="bf">Fonts</emphasis> section allows you to change the type and size of the display
fonts.</para>

<para>The <emphasis remap="bf">Colors</emphasis> section allows you to change the color of the text.
<emphasis remap="bf">Recycle colors on deep quoting</emphasis> means that even text that's quoted
more than three times will appear in color.</para>

<para>The <emphasis remap="bf">Layout</emphasis> section lets you toggle the long folder list on and off.
The long folder list lists folders all the way down the left side of the screen, which lets you see many 
more folders than in the default view, but it takes away some space for viewing the text 
of your message. With <emphasis remap="bf">Display message sizes</emphasis> selected there
will be another column in the Header pane that show the messages size in bytes.
<emphasis remap="bf">Thread list of message headers</emphasis> will put all the messages in a kind
of tree, so the replies to a mail are next to the mail. <emphasis remap="bf">Prefer plain tetx to HTML
rendering</emphasis> will show even HTML mails as plain text. <!-- fixme: correct? --></para>

<para>The <emphasis remap="bf">Profiles</emphasis> offer several common default settings
for colors and font sizes.</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="composertab">
<title>Composer Tab</title>

<para>The <emphasis remap="bf">Phrases</emphasis> section lets you define the automatically generated
lines added to message replies, forwarded
messages, and quoted text. There are special &percnt;-denoted characters that will insert certain values. These
are shown at the top of the Phrases section: &percnt;D to insert the date, &percnt;S to insert the subject,
&percnt;F to insert the sender, and &percnt;&percnt; to insert a percent sign, &percnt;_ inserts a
space. The <emphasis remap="bf">Indentation</emphasis> field contains the character that
will denote quoted text (you will probably want to use the default).</para>

<para>
<emphasis remap="bf">Automatically append
signature</emphasis> and <emphasis remap="bf">Automatically sign messages using PGP</emphasis> let you toggle whether
to automatically include
your signature and PGP signature in all of your messages by default. <emphasis remap="bf">Word wrap at column</emphasis>
lets you turn word wrapping on and off in the <emphasis remap="bf">Composer window</emphasis> and lets you set the
column at which words will be wrapped. <!-- fixme: "Use smart quoting" --></para>

<!-- fixme: move to getting started:
<para>The <emphasis remap="bf">When Sending Mail</emphasis> section lets you customize 
how and when messages are sent.</para>

<para>The <emphasis remap="bf">Default Sending options</emphasis> lets you define what happens when
a message is sent. If <emphasis remap="bf">Send now</emphasis> is
selected, the message is sent to the mail server immediately, while if 
<emphasis remap="bf">Send later</emphasis> is selected,
the message is queued in the <emphasis remap="bf">outbox</emphasis> to be sent later with the
<emphasis remap="bf">File &verbar; Send Queued</emphasis>
command or automatically when you check your mail, depending on the settings in the
<emphasis remap="bf">Miscellaneous</emphasis> tab.</para>

<para>The <emphasis remap="bf">Send messages options</emphasis> let you select how your message will be encoded when it is 
sent. <emphasis remap="bf">Allow 8 bits</emphasis> means that Kmail will send your message in 8 bit ASCII,
which means that all special characters such as accented letters will be sent as-is.  If 
<emphasis remap="bf">MIME-compliant (Quoted Printable)</emphasis> is selected,
special characters will be encoded using standard MIME encodings, which may be more portable to
other mailing systems than 8-bit ASCII.</para>
-->

</sect1>

<sect1 id="securitytab">
<title>Security Tab</title>

<para>This tab controls the PGP features. At a minimum, you must fill in the
<emphasis remap="bf">PGP User Identity</emphasis> field so that Kmail
can properly interface with PGP or GNU Privacy Guard.</para>
</sect1>

<!-- fixme: "Keep passphrase in memory", "Always encrypt to self" -->

<sect1 id="misctab">
<title>Miscellaneous Tab</title>

<para><variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>Empty Trash On Exit</term>
<listitem>
<para>The trash folder is cleared of messages when you quit Kmail if this option is selected.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Send Mail in outbox Folder on Check</term>
<listitem>
<para>All messages queued in the outbox folder will be sent whenever you check your mail.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<!-- fixme: external editor, new mail notification-->

</variablelist>
</para>
</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="secimporting">
<title>Using other Mailbox files With Kmail</title>

<para>This section is for all of the users who need to move email messages from their previous
email client over to Kmail. Kmail stores its mail using the <emphasis remap="bf">mbox</emphasis> format,
one of the most widely used mailbox formats on UNIX
systems. Mbox mailboxes store messages in one file, identifying where messages start and end with the
FROM: header. For many Unix mailers, all you must do is move your mailboxes to
<literal remap="tt">&tilde;/Mail</literal> (or make
 Mail a symbolic link to the folder containing you mailboxes) and launch Kmail.  The mailboxes should now 
show up correctly in Kmail.</para>

<para>If your old mailboxes are not in mbox format, see below for instructions on importing some other common
formats.</para>

<para><variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>Eudora Lite/Eudora Pro</term>
<listitem>
<para>Eudora uses the mbox format in its mail files. To use them with Kmail, make sure that your Eudora mailboxes have 
been compacted, then copy the .mbx files (Windows Eudora) or Eudora mailbox files (Mac Eudora) to your 
<literal remap="tt">&tilde;/Mail</literal> directory. You don't need to copy the index files. 
Once you start Kmail, the mailboxes should appear in the Folders pane and the messages should be accessible in
the Headers Pane.</para>
<para>If messages do not appear in the Headers pane, your mailbox files may still contain Windows or Macintosh
line feed characters.  Use your favorite text editor or scripting language to change the Windows or
Macintosh line feeds to Unix line feeds.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>MMDF</term>
<listitem>
<para>This format is close enough to the mailbox format that Kmail should be able to use these mailboxes if you
just copy them to your <literal remap="tt">&tilde;/Mail</literal> directory. However, MMDF mailboxes have
not been tested with Kmail,
so your results may vary.  If you can get this format to work with Kmail, please let us know so we
can include more specific directions in the next documentation release.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>MH mailboxes</term>
<listitem>
<para>MH mailboxes are directories containing files that correspond to each message in that mailbox. 
A shell script to convert MH mailboxes to mbox mailboxes, <emphasis remap="bf">mh2kmail</emphasis>, is included in the source 
releases of Kmail, but not currently in the packaged releases. (This may change in the future.) Running
this script on a MH folder will convert it to an mbox file.  We strongly suggest that you back up your MH
mail folders before you use this script.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Maildir</term>
<listitem>
<para>Maildir mailboxes, used by the Qmail mail-transfer agent, are not supported by Kmail at this time. </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Forte Agent</term>
<listitem>
<para>In Agent:
<orderedlist><listitem>
<para>Select the messages to export</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Select <emphasis remap="bf">FILE &verbar; SAVE MESSAGES AS</emphasis></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Mark the <emphasis remap="bf">UNIX FORMAT</emphasis> and <emphasis remap="bf">SAVE RAW</emphasis> boxes</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Give File a  .txt extension and save.</para>
</listitem>
</orderedlist>
</para>
<para>In Linux/KDE:
<orderedlist><listitem>
<para>Move previously saves file to correct <literal remap="tt">&tilde;/Mail</literal> folder</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Rename file without .txt extension</para>
</listitem>
</orderedlist>
</para>
<para>When you open Kmail the new folder with appropriate messages will be there.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Netscape Mail</term>
<listitem>
<para>Copy your Netscape Mailfiles from <literal remap="tt">&tilde;/nsmail/</literal> to
<literal remap="tt">&tilde;/Mail</literal>
folder. The mailboxes will show up in Kmail the next time you restart it.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Pegasus Mail</term>
<listitem>
<para>Pegasus for win32 uses single files for Mail folders simmilar to Kmail. Pegasus mail
folder files have the extension .pmm but they are the same format as
mbox except the messages do not start with the From header, but with a control character.
To work around this, replace each instance of the control character with
<literal remap="tt">From aaa@aaa Mon Jan 01 00:00:00 1997</literal>. This <literal remap="tt">From:</literal>
line should be the first
line of every message, before the <literal remap="tt">Received:</literal> and other headers. Make sure to use
a text editor that lets you save the files in Unix format.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Microsoft Outlook, Lotus Notes, BeOS Mail files, cc: Mail, etc...</term>
<listitem>
<para> Other mail programs probably do not work with Kmail as they use
specialized mail formats that Kmail cannot understand. However, there is no harm
in trying! If the mailbox file looks similar to the mbox format, try copying the
mailbox file (remember, the index file is not needed) to your <literal remap="tt">&tilde;/Mail</literal>
directory and see what happens.  If you get mailboxes from your favorite mail
client to work in Kmail, please tell us how you did it so that we can include
directions in a future revision of this documentation. </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</para>
</chapter>

<chapter id="secmenus">
<title>Menus and Keyboard Shortcuts</title>

<para>Each menu item is discussed below. When there is a keyboard shorcut that performs a
menu item function, it is listed after the menu item.</para>

<sect1 id="themainmailreaderwindow">
<title>The Main Mail Reader window</title>

<sect2 id="filemenu">
<title>File menu</title>

<para><variablelist>

<!-- fixme
<varlistentry>
<term>New Composer (Ctrl+N)</term>
<listitem>
<para>Creates a new <emphasis remap="bf">Composer</emphasis> window.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
-->

<varlistentry>
<term>New Mailreader</term>
<listitem>
<para>Creates a new <emphasis remap="bf">Mail Reader</emphasis> window.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Save As... (Ctrl+S)</term>
<listitem>
<para>Saves the currently displayed message as a plain text file.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Print... (Ctrl+P)</term>
<listitem>
<para>Prints the currently displayed message.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<!-- Compact all folders -->

<varlistentry>
<term>Check Mail (Ctrl+L)</term>
<listitem>
<para>Checks for new mail in all your accounts.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Check Mail in... submenu</term>
<listitem>
<para>Submenu that lets you check for new mail from a particular account.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Settings...</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens the <!-- fixme:link -->Settings window. You can configure the settings for your identity, accounts, network, PGP, 
the appearance of the <emphasis remap="bf">Composer</emphasis> and
<emphasis remap="bf">Mail Reader</emphasis> windows, and various other settings here.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Addressbook...</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens up the Addressbook.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Filters...</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens the <!-- fixme:link -->Filter Rules window.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Close (Ctrl+W)</term>
<listitem>
<para>Closes the current <emphasis remap="bf">Mail Reader</emphasis> window or exits
Kmail if there's only this one window.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Quit (Ctrl+Q)</term>
<listitem>
<para>Exits Kmail.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="editmenu">
<title>Edit menu</title>

<para><variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>Copy (Ctrl+C)</term>
<listitem>
<para>Copies selected text to the clipboard.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="foldermenu">
<title>Folder menu</title>

<para><variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>Create...</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens the New Folder dialog which lets you create a new folder.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Modify...</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens up the Modify Folder dialog which lets you change the settings for the selected folder.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Compact</term>
<listitem>
<para>Compacts the folder file to reduce its disk space usage. Use this command if your mailboxes seem
to be much larger than they ought to be.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Empty</term>
<listitem>
<para>Moves all of the messages in the selected folder into the trash folder.  If the selected
folder is the trash folder, the messages are permanently deleted.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Remove</term>
<listitem>
<para>Removes the selected folder.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<!-- fixme: two more entries -->

</variablelist>
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="messagemenu">
<title>Message menu</title>

<!-- fixme: continue update here -->

<para><variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>Next (N or the right arrow key)</term>
<listitem>
<para>Selects the next message in the Headers pane.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Next Unread (+)</term>
<listitem>
<para>Selects the next unread message in the Headers pane.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Previous (P or the left arrow key)</term>
<listitem>
<para>Selects the previous message in the Headers pane.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Previous Unread (-)</term>
<listitem>
<para>Selects the previous unread message in the Headers pane.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Reply... (R)</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens up the <emphasis remap="bf">Composer</emphasis> window with the contents of the selected message's Reply-To field 
in the To: field.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Reply All... (A)</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens up the <emphasis remap="bf">Composer</emphasis> window and copies the contents of the selected message's
Reply-To and To fields into the To: field and the cc: and bcc: fields into the cc: and bcc: fields of
the <emphasis remap="bf">Composer</emphasis> window.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Forward (F)</term>
<listitem>
<para>Forwards the message to a new recipient.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Edit (T)</term>
<listitem>
<para>Edits the selected message if it is editable.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Set Status submenu</term>
<listitem>
<para>Allows you to change the status of the selected message to one of the below:
<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>New</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Unread</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Read</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Replied</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Queued</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Sent</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Mark All (K)</term>
<listitem>
<para>Selects all of the messages in the current folder.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Move (M)</term>
<listitem>
<para>Moves all of the selected messages to a new folder.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Copy (S)</term>
<listitem>
<para>Copies the selected messages into a new folder.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Delete (D)</term>
<listitem>
<para>Moves the selected messages into the trash folder.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Send Again...</term>
<listitem>
<para>Sends the message again</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Apply Filters (Ctrl+J)</term>
<listitem>
<para>Applies your filters to the selected messages</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>View Source...</term>
<listitem>
<para>Views the message and its complete headers in plain text format in a new window.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="viewmenu">
<title>View menu</title>

<para><variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>Brief, Fancy, Standard, Long, and All Headers</term>
<listitem>
<para>Changes the number of headers that are displayed and the formatting of the headers in 
the Message pane.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Iconic, Smart, and Inlined Attachments</term>
<listitem>
<para>Changes the way that attachments appear in the Message pane.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="helpmenu">
<title>Help menu</title>

<para><variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>Contents (F1)</term>
<listitem>
<para>Invokes the KDE help system with the Kmail help pages displayed.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>About Kmail...</term>
<listitem>
<para>Displays information about Kmail.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>About KDE...</term>
<listitem>
<para>Displays information about KDE.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>



<sect1 id="thecomposerwindow2">
<title>The Composer window</title>

<sect2 id="filemenu2">
<title>File menu</title>

<para><variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>Send (Ctrl+Enter)</term>
<listitem>
<para>Queues the message in the outbox for sending it later.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Send Now</term>
<listitem>
<para>Sends the message immediately.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Insert File...</term>
<listitem>
<para>Inserts the selected text file into the message, starting at the cursor.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Address Book</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens up the address book.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Print</term>
<listitem>
<para>Prints the message.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>New Composer (Ctrl+N)</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens up a new <emphasis remap="bf">Composer</emphasis> window.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>New Mail Reader</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens up a new <emphasis remap="bf">Mail Reader</emphasis> window.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Close (Ctrl+W)</term>
<listitem>
<para>Closes the <emphasis remap="bf">Composer</emphasis> window.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="editmenu2">
<title>Edit menu</title>

<para><variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>Cut (Ctrl+X), Copy (Ctrl+C&gt;, Paste (Ctrl+V)</term>
<listitem>
<para>These items are for cutting, copying, and pasting text. They work like in most editors.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Mark all</term>
<listitem>
<para>Selects all of the text in your message.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Find (Ctrl+F)</term>
<listitem>
<para>Finds words, phrases, or expressions in the message.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Replace (Ctrl+R)</term>
<listitem>
<para>Lets you replace words, phrases, or expressions in your message with other words or phrases.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Spellcheck...</term>
<listitem>
<para>Uses KSpell to check the spelling in the body of your message.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="optionsmenu">
<title>Options menu</title>

<para><variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>Urgent</term>
<listitem>
<para>Sets the priority of the message to Urgent.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Confirm Delivery</term>
<listitem>
<para>If you choose this option, you will receive a confirmation email once your message is
successfully delivered to its destination mail server. (fixme: only if supported by receiver?!)</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Confirm Read</term>
<listitem>
<para>If you choose this option, you will receive a confirmation email once your message is
downloaded and read by its recipient. </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Spellchecker...</term>
<listitem>
<para>Allows you to configure Kspell, KDE's spellchecker.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="viewmenu2">
<title>View menu</title>

<para>This menu lets you toggle the display of the header fields in the 
<emphasis remap="bf">Composer</emphasis> window.</para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="attachmenu">
<title>Attach menu</title>

<para>This menu lets you select attachment options.</para>

<para><variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>Append Signature</term>
<listitem>
<para>Appends the contents of your signature file to the end of the message.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Insert File...</term>
<listitem>
<para>Inserts the contents of the selected file into the message starting at the cursor.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Attach...</term>
<listitem>
<para>Attaches the selected file to the message using the encoding you select in the dialog.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Attach Public Key... and Attach My Public Key</term>
<listitem>
<para>Attaches the corresponding PGP key to your message using the default encoding.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Remove</term>
<listitem>
<para>Removes the attachment that is selected in the attachment window.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Save...</term>
<listitem>
<para>Saves the attachment that is selected in the attachment window to a file.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Properties...</term>
<listitem>
<para>Displays the properties of the attachment that is selected in the attachment window.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="helpmenu2">
<title>Help menu</title>

<para><variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>Contents (F1)</term>
<listitem>
<para>Invokes the KDE help system with the Kmail help pages displayed.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>About Kmail...</term>
<listitem>
<para>Displays essential information about Kmail.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>About KDE...</term>
<listitem>
<para>Displays information about KDE.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>
</chapter>


<chapter id="questionsandanswers">
<title>Questions and answers</title>

<sect1 id="howdoiusemyeudoraxfmailotherrandommailclient">
<title>How do I use my (Eudora, XFmail, other random mail client) mailboxes in Kmail?</title>

<para>See the section <link linkend="secImporting">Using other Mailbox files With Kmail</link>.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="howdoileavemailontheserverfromthekdefaq">
<title>How do I leave mail on the server? (from the KDE FAQ)</title>

<para>Open up the Settings window from the file menu. Click on the Network tab. Select your account
from the account list and click the Modify button. This dialog contains the "Delete mail from server"
setting which you must not select. </para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="howdoiautomaticallyinsertatextfooterwithinth">
<title>How do I automatically insert a text footer within the mail? (from the KDE FAQ)</title>

<para>The text footer is called a signature file. What you need to do is
open up a text editor (like kedit) and type in what you want to appear in
the footer. Save the file under a name like signature or footer. Go into
Kmail and select <emphasis remap="bf">File &verbar; Settings...</emphasis>
Look in the "Identity" tab for the "signature file" field. Click on the
ellipses button and select the file you just created. Now Kmail will
automatically insert that file in any message you write.</para> </sect1>

<sect1 id="whydoeskmailkeepaskingmeforthelocationofmysi">
<title>Why does Kmail keep asking me for the location of my signature file?</title>

<para>Kmail will ask you the location of your signature file if you have checked the
option <emphasis remap="bf">Use a signature from file</emphasis> in the <emphasis remap="bf">Composer</emphasis> tab of
the <emphasis remap="bf">Settings</emphasis> dialog, but have not specified a signature file in the
<emphasis remap="bf">Identity</emphasis> tab. You should either specify a signature file or uncheck
<emphasis remap="bf">Use a signature from file</emphasis>.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="whydoesntwordwrapworkinthecomposerwindow">
<title>Why doesn't word wrap work in the Composer window?</title>

<para>The word wrap setting is probably turned off. Word wrap can be toggled on and off in the 
<emphasis remap="bf">Composer</emphasis> tab of the <emphasis remap="bf">Settings</emphasis> dialog box.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="howcanifindouthowmanyunreadmessagesihaveinam">
<title>How can I find out how many unread messages I have in a mail folder?</title>

<para>The number of unread messages is conveniently displayed in the
<emphasis remap="bf">Folders Pane</emphasis> after the folder name.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="secqasendmail">
<title>How do I set up sendmail to work with Kmail if I have a dial-up connection?</title>

	<para>First you should check if your distribution can set this up for you (or
	if it alreay did that). If that's not the case, you can follow these
	instructions, which apply to sendmail version 8.6.x and 8.7.x.</para>

	<para>These instructions were taken almost verbatim from the UCT Linux
	User's group page on <ulink
	url="http://www.leg.uct.ac.za/Articles/sendmail_dialup.html">configuring
	Sendmail for Dial-up connections</ulink>.</para>

	<sect2 id="step1masqueradehost">
	<title>Step 1: Masquerade host</title>

	<para>You now need to edit <literal remap="tt">/etc/sendmail.cf</literal> to tell it which host to masquerade as.
	Look for a line which says something like:
	<screen># who I masquerade as (null for no masquerading) (see also $=M)
	DM
	</screen>
	</para>

	<para>and add your address to the end of the line beginning "DM". Our user changed it to the following
	<screen>DMhendrix.org
	</screen>
	</para>

	<para>When our user sends mail, the <literal
	remap="tt">Return-Path</literal> and <literal remap="tt">From:</literal>
	fields will now say that the mail comes from hendrix.org. This prevents
	"cannot route to sender" messages which certain hosts you send mail to may
	generate because your machine does not have a DNS entry. We must still
	change the user portion of the email address, because if our user sends
	mail now, the <literal remap="tt">From:</literal> field will read <literal
	remap="tt">mj@hendrix.org</literal>, which is not correct. If you login to
	your home machine with the same username as the username portion of your
	email address, you can skip ahead to restarting sendmail. If you have
	different usernames (as our example does), you need to add a user
	database.</para> </sect2>

	<sect2 id="step2createauserdatabase">
	<title>Step 2: Create a user database</title>

	<para>Create a file modelled on the following:
	<screen>loginname:mailname      First_Last
	First_Last:maildrop     loginname
	</screen>
	</para>

	<para>"loginname" is the name you login is on your machine at home (in this case mj),
	"First&lowbar;Last" is the name portion of your
	email address (in this case mjturner). In this case our user created a file called
	<literal remap="tt">/etc/userdb</literal> containing the following:
	<screen>mj:mailname     mjturner@hendrix.org
	mjturner:maildrop       mj
	</screen>
	</para>

	<para>Once you have done this, you need to convert the text file <literal remap="tt">/etc/userdb</literal>
	into a Berkeley "db" database file which sendmail can
	understand. To do this, you need to run makemap as follows:
	<screen># makemap btree /etc/userdb.db &lt; /etc/userdb
	</screen>
	</para>

	<para>This creates the database file <literal remap="tt">/etc/userdb.db</literal>
	from the text file <literal remap="tt">/etc/userdb</literal>. You must remember do this every time you
	change <literal remap="tt">/etc/userdb</literal> otherwise sendmail will not be using
	your latest user database when sending mail.</para>
	</sect2>

	<sect2 id="step3adduserdatabasetosendmailcf">
	<title>Step 3: Add user database to sendmail.cf</title>

	<para>You must also tell sendmail to use your user database (<literal remap="tt">/etc/userdb.db</literal>)
	when sending mail. The syntax differs slightly depending on whether you are using an 8.7.x/8.8.x or 8.6.x
	config file. You can tell which version yours is by searching for
	the string "DZ" (<literal remap="tt">grep &circ;DZ /etc/sendmail.cf</literal>). For example, an 8.8.0
	config file would say <literal remap="tt">DZ8.8.0</literal>.</para>

	<sect3 id="xconfigfile">
	<title>8.6.x config file</title>

	<para>If you are using an 8.6.x config file, look for a line beginning
	<screen>    # list of locations of user database file (null means no lookup)
	    OU
	</screen>
	</para>

	<para>and add the location of your user database. Our user changed the above line to:
	<screen>    OU/etc/userdb.db
	</screen>
	</para>
	</sect3>

	<sect3 id="xor88xconfigfile">
	<title>8.7.x or 8.8.x config file</title>

	<para>If you are using an 8.7.x or 8.8.x config file look for a line beginning
	<screen>    # list of locations of user database file (null means no lookup)
	    O UserDatabaseSpec=
	</screen>
	</para>

	<para>and add the location of your user database to it. Our user changed it to the following:
	<screen>    O UserDatabaseSpec=/etc/userdb.db
	</screen>
	</para>
	</sect3>
	</sect2>

	<sect2 id="step4restartsendmail">
	<title>Step 4: Restart sendmail</title>

	<para>After making these changes, as root you need to restart sendmail:
	<screen># ps aux | grep sendmail | grep -v grep
	root        64  0.0  0.0  1208     0  ?  SW  11:45   0:00 (sendmail)

	# kill -HUP 64
	</screen>
	</para>

	<para>(use <literal remap="tt">ps -ef</literal> instead of <literal remap="tt">ps aux</literal>
	if you're using SysV).</para>

	<para>Sendmail will now re-read its config file (<literal remap="tt">/etc/sendmail.cf</literal>)
	and everything should be working. When you send mail, the from
	header field will be a valid email address and not the address you have on your machine. For example, when our user sends
	mail, it will read <literal remap="tt">From: mjturner@hendrix.org</literal> in the headers. This works with all mail user agents (Mutt, Elm, Pine, mh,
	etc) because the address translation is done at the mail transport agent level. Basically, you can use any program to send
	mail and your address will be correct.</para>
	</sect2>

	<sect2 id="step5configureasmartrelay">
	<title>Step 5: Configure a "smart" relay</title>

	<para>It can take quite a while for mail to get delivered to its final destination, as sendmail has to connect to the mail servers of the
	recipients of your mail. This time would have to be spent online, something which can prove to be costly. If, however, you
	configure sendmail to use a "smart" relay, it will deliver all mail to that relay and the relay will then deliver it to its
	destination. Your ISP's mail server makes an ideal "smart" relay.</para>

	<para>Change
	<screen># "Smart" relay host (may be null)
	DS
	</screen>
	</para>

	<para>to
	<screen># "Smart" relay host (may be null)
	DSmail.hendrix.org
	</screen>
	</para>

	<para>Don't forget to restart sendmail after doing this (see restarting sendmail).
	All non-local mail will now be sent to
	<literal remap="tt">mail.hendrix.org</literal> which will then deliver it to its final destination.</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>
</chapter>


<chapter id="epilogue">
<title>Epilogue</title>

<sect1 id="secdevelopers">
<title>Original Developers</title>
<!-- please keep in sync with the authors list webpage -->

<para><itemizedlist>
	<listitem><para>Stefan Taferner <ulink url="mailto:taferner@alpin.or.at">&lt;taferner@alpin.or.at&gt;</ulink></para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Markus Wuebben <ulink url="mailto:markus.wuebben@kde.org">&lt;markus.wuebben@kde.org&gt;</ulink></para></listitem>
</itemizedlist></para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="team">
<title>Current Team</title>

<para><itemizedlist>

	<listitem><para>Waldo Bastian <ulink url="mailto:bastian@kde.org">&lt;bastian@kde.org&gt;</ulink></para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Andreas Gungl <ulink url="mailto:a.gungl@gmx.de">&lt;a.gungl@gmx.de&gt;</ulink></para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Lars Knoll <ulink url="mailto:knoll@mpi-hd.mpg.de">&lt;knoll@mpi-hd.mpg.de&gt;</ulink></para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>J. Nick Koston <ulink url="mailto:bdraco@darkorb.net">&lt;bdraco@darkorb.net&gt;</ulink></para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Daniel Naber <ulink url="mailto:dnaber@mini.gt.owl.de">&lt;dnaber@mini.gt.owl.de&gt;</ulink></para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Sven Radej <ulink url="mailto:radej@kde.org">&lt;radej@kde.org&gt;</ulink></para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Espen Sand <ulink url="mailto:espen@kde.org">&lt;espen@kde.org&gt;</ulink></para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Don Sanders <ulink url="mailto:sanders@kde.org">&lt;sanders@kde.org&gt;</ulink>) (Active maintainer)</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>George Staikos <ulink url="mailto:staikos@0wned.org">&lt;staikos@0wned.org&gt;</ulink></para></listitem>

</itemizedlist></para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="documentation">
<title>Documentation</title>

	<para>Update for Kmail 1.1 by Daniel Naber <ulink url="mailto:dnaber@mini.gt.owl.de">&lt;dnaber@mini.gt.owl.de&gt;</ulink></para>
	<para>Kmail 1.0 documentation by David Rugge <ulink url="mailto:davidrugge@mindspring.com">&lt;davidrugge@mindspring.com&gt;</ulink></para>
	<para>Original documemtation by Markus Wuebben <ulink url="mailto:markus.wuebben@kde.org">&lt;markus.wuebben@kde.org&gt;</ulink></para>
	<para>Robert Williams - Editor <ulink url="mailto:rwilliams@kde.org">&lt;rwilliams@kde.org&gt;</ulink></para>
	<para>Some of the Kmail Questions and Answers were taken from the Kmail section of the KDE FAQ.</para>

	<para>The section on Sendmail configuration for dial-up connections was copied almost
	verbatim from UCT Linux User's group page on
	<ulink url="http://www.leg.uct.ac.za/Articles/sendmail_dialup.html">configuring Sendmail for 
	Dial-up connections</ulink></para>

	<para>Thanks to Michael Elkins <ulink url="mailto:me@cs.hmc.edu">&lt;me@cs.hmc.edu&gt;</ulink> for his
	excellent description of the different Unix mail formats in the Mutt documentation.</para>

	<para>Thanks to</para>

	<para><itemizedlist>
		<listitem><para>Mendel Mobach <ulink url="mailto:mendel@mobach.nl">&lt;mendel@mobach.nl&gt;</ulink> (Netscape mail)</para></listitem>
		<listitem><para>Ed Shapard <ulink url="shapard@bigfoot.com">&lt;mailto:shapard@bigfoot.com&gt;</ulink> (Pegasus Mail)</para></listitem>
		<listitem><para>Ray Muir <ulink url="mailto:rjmuir@ibm.net">&lt;rjmuir@ibm.net&gt;</ulink>(Forte Agent)</para></listitem>
	</itemizedlist></para>

	<para>for providing directions on using other mail clients' mailboxes
	with Kmail.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="copyright">
<title>Copyright</title>

<para>Kmail is copyright 1998-2000 Stefan Taferner.</para>

<para>The Kmail documentation is copyright 1999-2000 David Rugge.</para>

<para>This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.</para>

<para>This program is distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.</para>

<para>You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.</para>
</sect1>
</chapter>
</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag: nil
sgml-shorttag: t
End:
-->
